#TypeScript - SharePoint 2013**Why TypeScript for SharePoint Apps?**For 2013, the cloud app model is the recommended approach. Built up REST API and CSOM is to help support this.  This puts more emphasis on building things outside of SharePoint (JS, HTML,CSS, etc.). TypeScript helps with writing JS.You can do OOP in JavaScript with its built in functionality, but it hard to maintain and readJS can be tough to debug and a lot of problems are often found at runtimeProblem in JavaScript  * cumbersome to debug  * global variables  TypeScript is released under the Apache 2 licenseNot intended to replace JavaScript.Microsoft contributing to Open Source Software community to help get more people on AzureStarts with JavaScript, add special feature, ends with JavaScriptCan always back out of it by taking compiled JS"Can do TDD and other things that you couldn't do before with JS"- (not true)Raytracer example on typescriptlang.org is a good example of the powerful things you can do with TypeScript (JS)/ HTML5/etc.TypeScript syntax is more compact and familiar to OO devsThere are tools now that can do enough reflection on JS than can build .d.ts files for TypeScriptCan maybe install TypeScript Plugin through Web Platform Installer?SharePoint 2013 typically take 3 servers, recommended 5DefinitelyTyped .d.ts files are now available on NuGetLinq.js is an interesting project that provides Linq support to JavaScript. There is a .d.ts file for [Linq.js](http://linqjs.codeplex.com/)Good article on TechNet that breaks down when to chose SP REST API vs CSOM vs etc. and Office 365 vs on premise####Survey - About 40 People  * 6 heard of TypeScript  * 2 like writing in JavaScript  * 1 (me) familiar with CoffeeScript/DART  * A couple of people are familiar with LightSwitch  * 1 has used Access 2013Have to include build step to compile ts filesTypeScript inside of VS provides right click refactorA lot of OSS buzz (large number of forks, SO questions, posts on github and codeplex)Links[SharePoint App TypeScript Integration Workaround](http://aka.ms/bogue)Rest API currently available as aa .d.ts file. CSOM currently not available, although they are looking for developers to contribute to it.